draft 3rd episode (#26)
carpentries-incubator/better-research-software-r: episodes/03-reproducible-dev-environment.md

However, "true" computational reproducibility is very difficult to achieve.
For example, the tools we will use in this lesson only track the dependencies of our software, remaining unaware of other aspects of the software's environment such as the operating system and hardware of the system it is running on.
These properties of the environment can influence the running of the software and the results it produces and should be accounted for if a workflow is to be truly reproducible.

Although there is more that we can do to maximise the reproducibility of our software/workflows, the steps described in this episode are an excellent place to start.
We should not let the difficulty of attaining "perfect" reproducibility prevent us from implementing "good enough" practices that make our lives easier and are _much_ better than doing nothing.

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

## Managing virtual environments R-style

Instantiating virtual environments in R is multi-step, multi-tool process.

> The first step is to rely on RStudio's R Project feature, which begins the process of creating an isolated dependency space.

Reviewer: This needs clarification. How exactly, other than setting the working directory?

Typically, when we call on packages to use in an RScript, we make sure the package code is available locally.
Packages are downloaded from the nether via `install.packages("my_package")` and installed in expected places in your machine.
The actual location is platform specific:

-   macOS / Linux: \~/Library/R/x.y/library or \~/R/x.y/library
-   Windows: C:/Users/<username>/Documents/R/win-library/x.y/

R load packages from these directories, which are listed in .libPaths() and available to all R code in that machine.

> If you put a project-specific library fist in that vector, you have effectively created an "environment."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The specific paths in your machine can be found by running `.libPaths()` in an R console.
R will attempt to install to and load packages from these directories (in order).
If you point that vector to a project-specific library, you have effectively created an "environment".
```
